The Joe Rogan experience.
Did I ever tell you the story about, uh, my friend Phil Hartman?
When he was a kid, he was, uh,
a roadie for Jimmy hendris for one night. He was like, what?
Whatever you would call it, a grip, someone who's a staff,
the stage take something on. Yeah. Yeah. Stage, state, age hand. Yeah. And, um,
he was a, he was a teenager and, uh,
Hendrixs is at the whiskey and he's there putting his hands on
the speakers, making sure they don't fall over because they were kind of,
perously close to the edge and hendris is just going off playing.
He was just going off right in front of him. Wow. You
right in front of him right in front of him. And he said, dude, he goes,
he was feet away from me. I could have touched him. He was right. Hendrix.
Phil Hartman told me with great. Me and Phil Hartman got high a couple times.
<laugh> when, uh, we did news radio together.
It was one of the only couple of times that I got high during that era. Um,
it was, it wasn't much, he got high. He got high a lot. Matter of fact,
I might have not have even gotten high. I definitely got drunk. Anyway.
He was telling me about when he was a teenager that he worked with Jimmy
Hendrixs. Wow. He was a stage tech at the whiskey. Wait,
so how old was Phil then? He must have, when I met him,
I wanna say he was 46 when I met him coming off of Santa Atlanta.
So like nineties 94 is when I met him. Okay.
I don't wanna say he was like late forties. So when he was a teenager,
Jimmy died in late seventies. Right. He died in 1970, I think. Right? Oh,
early seventies. Yeah. Nineties straight up. So how old of Phil?
So when I met Phil, it was 94. That was 24 years later. Does that make sense?
If he was like, uh, 19 at the time or something like that? Wow. So anyway,
he's a kid and Hendrixs is right in front of him.
And his job is to make sure that the speaker doesn't fall into the crowd.
So he's standing there and he is looking up at the stage.
He standing in front of the stage and Jimmy Hendrix is right in front of him in
this prime. You know, when all, when everything is going down,
you couldn't believe he was real.
You couldn't believe he's standing right in front of you. Oh my gosh.
Like a Hendrixs didn't exist before there was no, he there's. No, prehendrix,
there's just Hendrix and everything else is like,
like you read about Eric Clapton, like Eric,
Clapton's quotes about seeing hendris play for the very first time.
It's fascinating. Yeah, because you realize like,
with these top of the food chain guitarists go to see Hendrix and they go,
what the are we doing? What are we doing? What is he doing?
What the is happening here? Yeah. And then Phil said he,
it was happening right in front of him. Phil, you know,
would dabbling music for fun. He really enjoyed like playing guitar in around.
So for him to be a kid and to be standing right in front of Hendrixs performing
was like, whoa, that's a new one. Right. Dog.
Whistle's only been around for like two years people calling something, uh,
transphobic or homophobic. Yeah. Or sexist dog whistle.
Like mm-hmm <affirmative> holy. Like you can't say anything.
Anymore. Well, let's go back to the basics. Um, yeah.
I was on the internet very early, 1987 before the worldwide web.
And um, you may remember we had something called Usenet groups. Yes.
And the Usenet groups and the way it used to work, because, you know,
we didn't really have a widely spread internet back then,
except in universities. I was on MTV. And when I saw the in I'm like, holy.
I'm emailing with kid, my audience who were not counted in the ratings,
by the way,
college audience don't count in the Nielsen ratings or at least didn't at the
time. And they want something very different from what MTV is playing.
So I was like, wow, this is interesting.
So I got into these use net groups and the way that worked is you'd post thing.
And then overnight, it would be copied all around the internet.
And you had to connect to a special server and you pulled in the groups that you
had subscribed to. And so really it was kind of a,
it wasn't an immediate conversation,
but we'd post something and then people would reply back.
And I just kind of jumped in two feet and, and immediately you,
commercial MTV. What are you doing here? off that. You don't,
you're not supposed to quote like that.
You're supposed to quote at the bottom and the top. And I was like, whoa,
what's going on?
And what that was is the minute you have the opportunity for people to say stuff
anonymously, they turn into giant Dick bags, almost everybody.
This is just an easier a way to do it. Yeah. Now we've made it so easy.
And with all the little, the, you know, the, uh, the, the,
the blips and the blooms and the rewards that you feel when something is posted
or someone, you know, goes against you. And it's like the, and again,
I think a amygdalas have swollen because of this. So then you get this, this,
you respond differently to what you think, an attack and the attack reg,
and you know, this mm. Registers in your brain as,
as something really dangerous. I'm BA I'm gonna go back at 'em,
but they're anonymous. And that's the, that's the best thing.
Then the blue check mark became a little more interesting, um,
which I don't have. And, uh, I tried to get one for a long time.
Someone over there hates me and now really? Oh yeah. They wouldn't. No,
that's what it is. They hate you. So they, what else could it be?
I've never gotten a blue check mark. I don't want one. Now, now to me,
it's the mark of the beast. <laugh> you got a blue check mark. You know,
I'd be looking over my shoulder, man. I was like, eh,
so now that's become kind of those to UN those are the people that now risk
being deplatform because you have status, right. Her,
it's fun to bang against these people. Like the, this guy,
I'm gonna bang against him. Mm. So it's some human nature that is,
that just exists within us. Um, like, you know,
it would be really easier for me to go online, you know,
under whatever Twitter handle that Joe Rogan you, Dick.
I wouldn't say that to your face. Look at you, you know, beat me the up. So no,
both.
My parents converted from Judaism to Catholicism before they met each other.
Whoa. Yeah, it was, it was very unusual. How did that happen? Uh,
it's a long story. I'll tell you if you really wanna know, but anyway, I'll,
I'll, I'll do the short that's what I'm getting to. And this was during the,
during the second world war, they were both in New York, both first generation,
uh, American Jews. That makes sense.
They converted for different reasons from each other.
And then they met my father's family was Orthodox. Um,
and his father, a guy named shepsel Dubner, uh,
would come here when he was in his, maybe late twenties from Poland.
He still lived his every day in Brooklyn as if he were still in Poland.
He didn't change at all.
When my father converted and his father found out my father
was in the war, he was overseas.
He was home on leave and his father was cleaning up.
And from my father, his pants that he'd left over a chair, uh, rosary beads,
slipped out and fell on the floor.
That's how his Jewish father Shepzel Dubner found out that his son had become a
Catholic. Whoa. So what he did is he proceeded to, uh,
sit shva for him. The Jewish mourning ritual were for seven days,
you mourn the dead. He,
he declared that he would no ever again speak to his son.
And he forbade everyone in his family from speaking to his son.
So I, by the time I was born,
I was the youngest of eight kids in this family because they'd become very
Catholic.
I didn't know this whole family of my father's was unknown to me
entirely. So they did exactly. You're saying now. Holy.
Yeah. Yeah. That was what I thought too, when I, holy.
<laugh> mm-hmm <affirmative> and my mother's did the same thing,
but it was less dramatic cuz her family was less religious.
So they still didn't like at all that she had converted. Um, but uh,
do you have any children? Uh, yeah, I got a couple I'm Jewish again though.
I it's a long, so my first,
the first book I wrote long before freakomics was called turbulent souls.
Although it got then republished under a different title called choosing my
religion and it tells this, this story of my, uh, my two parents. Me. Yeah.
I uh, so I would love.
To hear that,
but I just want to put in your head that what I was gonna ask you is like,
how could you,
you imagine a scenario where you would be capable of doing that to your
children?
So, uh, no chance, no chance, no chance,
but it's so scary. Yeah, it's scary. It, it is. But on the other hand, I mean,
this is, um,
what freakomics is what I try to learn through doing freakomics is,
you know,
to measure the what and try to figure out the why,
but then not be the judge who says that was terrible.
This is wonderful because you know, different people have, look,
if shepsel Dubner were here, we could ask him what's your side of the story.
He could tell us a story that might convince us that, you know what,
this son of his did a terrible thing to the family. He did a terrible thing.
You know, he would say,
how could it be that we Jews existed for generations and generations and
generations. When everywhere we lived, there was always someone trying to,
you know, get rid of us. And then we finally come to America, you know,
the land of freedom, religious freedom, economic freedom,
and here after generations and generations of forefathers fought to stay Jewish
here, my son decides to become Catholic. What are you thinking? So, you know,
everybody's, everybody's got a perspective,
everybody's got an emotional experience. So I try to respect that. But no,
I would not do that to my children that.
They're pull, what are they pulling it back with fishing wire to keep it up,
up on his head. It just seems.
He seems oddly stiff. You know what I'm saying? Yeah.
Like it seems like everything's pulled, like there's not a,
I expect a certain amount of laxity in a man's face when he reaches a certain
age, particularly around the forehead area. <laugh>
I'm just not seeing it. I'm not seeing any movement either.
Which makes me wonder about that. Like I wanna see expressions in your forehead.
My worry is his lack. He has a very big his,
he lacks the ability to have like a cohesive story. Yeah.
Like he's not good at being like,
like have you ever seen him talking to the kids by the pool? It's the weirdest,
I'm talking about his hairy legs. What the?
He's like to a bunch of little black kids he's like,
and the black kids would come up and they'd see my hair go up and bubbles.
Come up and they touch my hairy legs. <laugh> what.
The. I just think his brain is, he's losing a lot of,
I tweeted something this morning, cuz there was someone put up a video of, uh,
of models on a runway,
on a catwalk and they're all tripping and falling at the same spot.
These dumb shoes they're wearing. And I was like, this is Biden's brain cells.
It's like,
they think they're on the right path and that they get to the spot and then they
just can't, did.
You see the thing that he was talking about? God creating women or no. And, and,
and then he called his wife, his sister, you know the, you know,
I forget what it was. I forget what the gaff was,
but it was one of those we listened to him like what you're,
what are you saying? Like it's, it's like he has no breaks. Right?
Like his car is going down the hill, like, ah, geez. I had a tree.
He's like hit the wall.
it is can't remember the word creator refers to God as the thing <laugh>.
Hey, actually I like that more. That'ss funny. No, you.
Know what? I think I have a different take take on it. Let's play it.
Cause I want, I want, I have a different take on it. Cuz when I listened to it,
I said, oh I know what he's doing, which is one. Do you think it is his first?
The bottom one? The second one? Yeah. He doesn't want to here. Let's wait.
We know these truth.
To be selfevent all men and women are created by the go. You know the,
you know the things.
Stop, pause. You can't be president. What? Stop, pause, pause.
Listen, we can't play any games here, folks.
This is a really old man who can't talk like this is not a joke
like that right now. Yeah. You know the thing, play that again. Play that again.
This should get you into a mental hospital. Right? They should be like, Hey, um,
Joe, you are right.
We hold these truth to be selfevident all men and women created by go,
you know the, you know, the, he.
Had three strokes while he was saying that Jesus, the first one,
what was that word? Selfevident is that what he hold.
These truth to be selfevent but it didn't even sound right.
He hear it again. Listen't do it.
<laugh> we owe these truth to be selfevent self evidentevidence.
Selfevent he's drunk that dude's either drunk or he can't talk. We,
we are just truths to be allevent he shouldn't be doing this anymoreeverent.
And then he says, when he goes, he could have just said,
all men and women are created and he could have just said equal and gotten out
of there and been like, it B instead he goes.
You the thing by the, we,
I think he didn't wanna say the creator because there's a lot of people,
the religious thing. Yeah. There's lot of people that would say, well,
what are you trying to say?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> do you believe in evolution or nothmm are you a science
denier? Joe Biden. Joe, Biden's a science denier.
I.